CPS842: Information Retrieval and Web Search

Objective: 

The purpose of assignment 2 is to help you have a better understanding on the vector space retrieval model, gain some experiences of building a complete information retrieval system, and understand the process of evaluating an IR system based on some standard test collections.

Test collection:

You will continue using CACM collection for this assignment. There are three files you need to use: cacm.all (document collection), query.text (query collection), and qrels.text (relevance evaluation).

Requirements:

1. You need to have a program invert to do the index construction. You could use the same program from assignment 1, in which postings are ordered in document ID, or you could modify it a little bit to save the postings in the order of term frequency. Other modifications are also allowed in order to have a more efficient retrieval process.

2. You need to write a program search for the retrieval process using the vector space model. The cosine similarity formula (with length normalization) should be used. Stop word removal and stemming could be turned on or off for both documents and queries. The input to this program would be a free text query (without Boolean operators), and the output would be a list of relevant documents together with their relevance scores. You may choose to define a cut-off value, if the relevance score of a document is less than this pre-defined threshold, you don't need to output the document, or a cut-off value for how many results to output.

3. You should write a program to implement the user interface. Users could interactively enter a query, and the program will return all the relevant results. For each result, the ranking order (e.g. 1, 2, 3), the document title and the author names should be displayed. This program basically uses the output from search program.

4. The final part of the assignment is to evaluate the performance of the IR system you have developed. You need to write a program eval. The input to this program would be query.text and qrels.text from CACM. Your program should go through all the queries in query.text, for each query, get all the relevant results from your system (by running search), compare the results with the actual user judgment from qrels.text, and then calculate the mean average precision (MAP) and R-Precision values. The final output will be the average MAP and R-Precision values over all queries.

5. Write a README file about how to run your programs and a report about details of the programs such as whether postings lists are ordered in document ID or term frequency, whether you have defined a threshold and if so what is the value, and which variation of td-idf weighting scheme you used for both documents and queries.

6. You should submit a zipped file (e.g. cps842f13_a2_yourname.zip) including README, the source code of all programs (invert, search, eval and the interface program), MAP and R-Precision values of your IR system, and the result from a few sample runs (e.g. screenshots) through your interface program.